# db-design-final-project
Our group decided on creating a webapp for librarians. The idea we had in mind was to simplify the process of creating reservations for users of the library while storing the books they reserved simultaneously. Libraries contain thousands, if not tens of thousands, of books; all which must be ID’d and kept track of. Librarians face the daunting task of having to keep a tab on all the books that leave and re-enter the library. By creating a simple webapp connected to a database, a librarian can easily log new reservations when a book is taken and delete reservations as the book comes back after a certain time. The process of manually having to erase on paper or search for a book on an excel spreadsheet is a time heavy process. Creating a webapp helps to solve many of these problem for an up-and-coming librarian who doesn’t want to sit behind a computer all day.

We sought out to solve this problem by creating a simple database containing 3 objects: a User, Book, and Reservation. For simplification purposes, the Book can only have 3 genres, represented through an enumeration of “Fiction, “NonFiction”, and “Cartoon”. One user can create many reservations. That is, a library goer can take out as many books as she wants. On the other hand, one book can have many reservations.

As described before, the two domain objects we have are Books and Reservations. The book domain object contains 5 fields -- the book id, the title, the author, the reservation status, and the genre (enumeration). An example book in the data base could be new Book (1, “Harry Potter”, “JK Rowling”, false, “Fiction”). While there are certainly more fields that could be attached to a book such as publisher, number of pages, or year published, we believe that these fields are sufficient for a librarian to comfortably keep track of the books coming in and out of the library. The second domain object is a reservation. A reservation contains 5 fields – the reservation id, the user id, the book id, the reservation date, and the due date. An example reservation in the data base could be new Reservation (1, 2, 3, 2000-01-01, 2000-01-12). The reservation serves as the link between a user and books as it takes in the user id and book id as fields.

The typical user of this webapp would be a librarian or someone working in the library. It is important to note that the user object is not the librarian itself, but someone who uses the library and reserves books. They can easily comb through all the data in the database quickly. For example, if they notice that a user has many reservations that are past the reservation due date, they can use that user’s email to contact them and require the book to be returned. Also, if a librarian noticed that one book has an abnormal number of reservations, they can decide whether to order more copies to match the demand of that specific book. Additionally, a librarian can delete all instances of all our objects. If a book was lost by a user or the librarian knew that a user had moved towns, then the librarian can just delete their records from the database.

Our webapps serves as an easy way for a librarian to search through and query all the data collected in a library.
